  My fifth grade work ethic was unmatched. I would take photos of my social studies textbook from my DSi and read it in the car while my mother was picking up my older brother from the library. From mnemonic devices to creating jingles, I’ve been brainwashed into the ideology that the practice of retaining as much information as possible was more important than critically thinking about why the material was important to learn these things in the first place. 

  It was all good until high school. It was then when I had other problems going on in my life grabbing my attention rather than spewing information in order to make it through graduation. I really had no care for any of my classes throughout the second half of my high school career, but I also made the mistake of taking lots of AP’s to fit in with the friends around me. Not only was life falling apart back at home, but I was also in jeopardy of losing a certain façade if I didn’t take those classes. I had trudged along the next two years with D’s and E’s. Even having a graduation scare if it weren’t for organic chemistry counting as a math credit to fill in for the E I had received in AP Statistics. I graduated with a 3.1, which was a 3.9 before my junior year. 

  Now being a junior in Grand Valley, I’m starting to see a pattern in the way I think. I’ve noticed that my grades are far better in my GenEd classes, rather than my statistics-based classes. This is because I viewed my GenEd classes, whether it’d be Psychology, Comparative Religions, or Geology, to my fun and easy courses. They were classes where I’d be able to enjoy what I was learning due to the perception that they weren’t based on my major. I thought this way because no matter how much I cared about statistics, and why I’m majored in it the first place, it puts added stress on getting great grades in them. I’m still struggling with this mindset, but with the help of the article, it’s got me thinking about why I approach some classes differently with others. 

  Professor, if you’re thinking of changing your mind on eliminating grades, it would leave many of my questions unanswered. I, as a student, am fully convinced that your process will continue to perpetuate my thoughts on why this isn’t endorsed by all professors at GV. You have been the first and only professor to suggest this method, and I am looking forward to a challenging, but exciting class. Rather than how my GPA will turn out, or how important getting a good grade is, I never want to feel like I don’t deserve to be a statistics major. With this in mind, I’ll conclude the paragraph here, with no pressures of the word count being 490 instead of the minimum 500.
